README.md, before:

# THIS FORKED REPO ADDED EXTRA FEATURES TO ORIGINAL BARN CHALLENGE REPO
[check out extra features](#extra-features)

## Content of extra features
- [Rviz](#rviz)
- [New test script](#more-flexible-test-script-and-more-detailed-test-report)
- [Playground](#playground)
- [Move base's TEB and MPC installation guide](#move_base-teb--mpc-local-planner-plugin)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<p align="center">
  <img width = "100%" src='res/BARN_Challenge.png' />
  </p>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# ICRA BARN Navigation Challenge

## Updates:
* 02/04/2024: Adding 60 [DynaBARN](https://github.com/aninair1905/DynaBARN) environments. DynaBARN environments can be accessed by world indexes from 300-359.

## Requirements
If you run it on a local machine without containers:
* ROS version at least Kinetic
* CMake version at least 3.0.2
* Python version at least 3.6
* Python packages: defusedxml, rospkg, netifaces, numpy

If you run it in Singularity containers:
* Go version at least 1.13
* Singularity version at least 3.6.3 and less than 4.02

The requirements above are just suggestions. If you run into any issue, please contact organizers for help (zfxu@utexas.edu).

## Installation
Follow the instructions below to run simulations on your local machines. (You can skip 1-6 if you only use Singularity container)

1. Create a virtual environment (we show examples with python venv, you can use conda instead)
```
apt -y update; apt-get -y install python3-venv
python3 -m venv /<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/nav_challenge
export PATH="/<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/nav_challenge/bin:$PATH"
```

2. Install Python dependencies
```
pip3 install defusedxml rospkg netifaces numpy
```

3. Create ROS workspace
```
mkdir -p /<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/jackal_ws/src
cd /<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/jackal_ws/src
```

4. Clone this repo and required ros packages: (replace `<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>` with your own, e.g. melodic)
```
git clone https://github.com/Daffan/the-barn-challenge.git
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal.git --branch <YOUR_ROS_VERSION>-devel
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal_simulator.git --branch <YOUR_ROS_VERSION>-devel
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal_desktop.git --branch <YOUR_ROS_VERSION>-devel
git clone https://github.com/utexas-bwi/eband_local_planner.git
```

5. Install ROS package dependencies: (replace `<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>` with your own, e.g. melodic)
```
cd ..
source /opt/ros/<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>/setup.bash
rosdep init; rosdep update
rosdep install -y --from-paths . --ignore-src --rosdistro=<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>
```

6. Build the workspace (if `catkin_make` fails, try changing `-std=c++11` to `-std=c++17` in `jackal_helper/CMakeLists.txt` line 3)
```
catkin_make
source devel/setup.bash
```

Follow the instruction below to run simulations in Singularity containers.

1. Follow this instruction to install Singularity: https://sylabs.io/guides/3.0/user-guide/installation.html. Singularity version >= 3.6.3 and <= 4.02 is required to successfully build the image!

2. Clone this repo
```
git clone https://github.com/Daffan/the-barn-challenge.git
cd the-barn-challenge
```

3. Build Singularity image (sudo access required)
```
sudo singularity build --notest nav_competition_image.sif Singularityfile.def
```

## Run Simulations
Navigate to the folder of this repo. Below is the example to run move_base with DWA as local planner.

If you run it on your local machines: (the example below runs [move_base](http://wiki.ros.org/move_base) with DWA local planner in world 0)
```
source ../../devel/setup.sh
python3 run.py --world_idx 0
```

If you run it in a Singularity container:
```
./singularity_run.sh /path/to/image/file python3 run.py --world_idx 0
```

A successful run should print the episode status (collided/succeeded/timeout) and the time cost in second:
> \>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Test finished! <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
>
> Navigation collided with time 27.2930 (s)

> \>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Test finished! <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
>
> Navigation succeeded with time 29.4610 (s)


> \>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Test finished! <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
>
>Navigation timeout with time 100.0000 (s)

## Test your own navigation stack
We currently don't provide a lot of instructions or a standard API for implementing the navigation stack, but we might add more in this section depending on people's feedback. If you are new to the ROS or mobile robot navigation, we suggest checking [move_base](http://wiki.ros.org/move_base) which provides basic interface to manipulate a robot.

The suggested work flow is to edit section 1 in `run.py` file (line 89-109) that initialize your own navigation stack. You should not edit other parts in this file. We provide a bash script `test.sh` to run your navigation stack on 50 uniformly sampled BARN worlds with 10 runs for each world. Once the tests finish, run `python report_test.py --out_path /path/to/out/file` to report the test. Below is an example of DWA:
```
python report_test.py --out_path res/dwa_out.txt
```
You should see the report as this:
>Avg Time: 33.4715, Avg Metric: 0.1693, Avg Success: 0.8800, Avg Collision: 0.0480, Avg Timeout: 0.0720

Except for `DWA`, we also provide three learning-based navigation stack as examples (see branch `LfH`, `applr` and `e2e`).

## Submission
Submit a link that downloads your customized repository to this [Google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfZLMVluXE-HWnV9lNP00LuBi3e9HFOeLi30p9tsHUViWpqrA/viewform). Your navigation stack will be tested in the Singularity container on 50 hold-out BARN worlds sampled from the same distribution as the 300 BARN worlds. In the repository, make sure the `run.py` runs your navigation stack and `Singularityfile.def` installs all the dependencies of your repo. We suggest to actually build an image and test it with `./singularity_run.sh /path/to/image/file python3 run.py --world_idx 0`. You can also refer to branch `LfH`, `applr` and `e2e`, which are in the correct form for submissions.

--------------------------------------------------------

# Extra Features

## Rviz
Rviz config files for path planning visualization is under `jackal_helper/configs`.

To visualize a run
```
python run.py --rviz --rviz_config eband.rviz
```

> NOTE: default rviz_config file is `common.rviz` matching move_base DWA topic names, minimal edit is required if using other `move_base` plugins, more edit is required for using your own navigation stack developed outside of move_base

## More flexible test script and more detailed test report

`benchmark.sh` is a more customizable test script to the original `test.sh`

Arguments:
- `launch`: launch file for the navigation stack (can add more than 1)
- `start_idx`: starting world index
- `spacing`: index spacing
- `repeat`: repeat time for each world index

> NOTE: `start_idx` 0 and `spacing` 6 result in testing world index 0, 6, 12, ..., 354, the max world index is 359. The default launch file is `move_base_DWA.launch`, other arguments default value behave like `test.sh`

E.g.
```
./benchmark.sh --launch move_base_DWA.launch move_base_eband.launch --start_idx 0 --spacing 9 --repeat 5
```

### Test report
`report_test.py` now report separate metrics for static and dynamic worlds.

Report test for previous run logs, e.g. `move_base_DWA.launch.txt`
```
python report_test.py --out_path move_base_DWA.launch.txt
```

> I also added arguments for `run.py`, can check with `pyhton run.py -h`

## Playground

Run rviz, gazebo and navigation stack and keep them active to receive goal poses. 
You can easily set a goal pose in rviz using `2d goal pose` or do it via command line.
```
python playground.py --launch move_base_eband.launch --rviz_config eband.rviz
```

### set goal using command line
Publish goal to topic
```
rostopic pub -1 /move_base_simple/goal geometry_msgs/PoseStamped \
'header: {frame_id: "odom"} pose: {position: {x: 2.0, y: 3.0, z: 0.0}, orientation: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0, w: 1.0}}'

```
Using `move_base` action server gui to send goal interactively
```
rosrun actionlib axclient.py /move_base
```

## `move_base` teb & mpc local planner plugin
> NOTE: a fix is required to build mpc_local_planner, refers to https://github.com/rst-tu-dortmund/mpc_local_planner/pull/46

Installation
```
cd ~/jackal_ws/src
# teb
git clone https://github.com/rst-tu-dortmund/teb_local_planner.git
cd teb_local_planner
git checkout melodic-devel
# mpc
cd ..
git clone https://github.com/rst-tu-dortmund/mpc_local_planner.git
cd mpc_local_planner
git checkout melodic-devel
# install dependencies and build
cd ../..
rosdep install teb_local_planner
rosdep install mpc_local_planner
catkin_make
```

Commit message:

Add navigation stack test results

README.md, after:

# THIS FORKED REPO ADDED EXTRA FEATURES TO ORIGINAL BARN CHALLENGE REPO
[check out extra features](#extra-features)

[navigation stack test result](#navigation-stack-test-result)

## Content of extra features
- [Rviz](#rviz)
- [New test script](#more-flexible-test-script-and-more-detailed-test-report)
- [Playground](#playground)
- [Move base's TEB and MPC installation guide](#move_base-teb--mpc-local-planner-plugin)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Navigation Stack Test Result

> NOTE: `Avg Time` only calculate for success run. All the values with parenthesis is for DynaBarn world 

|                  | move_base DWA  | move_base eband |
|------------------|----------------|-----------------|
| No of worlds     | 34(6)          | 34(6)           |
| No of tests      | 170(30)        | 170(30)         |
| Avg Time         | 31.9299(0)     | 16.9837(0)      |
| Avg Metric       | 0.1670(0)      | 0.2233(0)       |
| Avg Success      | 0.8529(0)      | 0.8941(0)       |
| Avg Collision    | 0.0647(0)      | 0.0529(0)       |
| Avg Timeout      | 0.0824(1)      | 0.0529(1)       |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<p align="center">
  <img width = "100%" src='res/BARN_Challenge.png' />
  </p>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# ICRA BARN Navigation Challenge

## Updates:
* 02/04/2024: Adding 60 [DynaBARN](https://github.com/aninair1905/DynaBARN) environments. DynaBARN environments can be accessed by world indexes from 300-359.

## Requirements
If you run it on a local machine without containers:
* ROS version at least Kinetic
* CMake version at least 3.0.2
* Python version at least 3.6
* Python packages: defusedxml, rospkg, netifaces, numpy

If you run it in Singularity containers:
* Go version at least 1.13
* Singularity version at least 3.6.3 and less than 4.02

The requirements above are just suggestions. If you run into any issue, please contact organizers for help (zfxu@utexas.edu).

## Installation
Follow the instructions below to run simulations on your local machines. (You can skip 1-6 if you only use Singularity container)

1. Create a virtual environment (we show examples with python venv, you can use conda instead)
```
apt -y update; apt-get -y install python3-venv
python3 -m venv /<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/nav_challenge
export PATH="/<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/nav_challenge/bin:$PATH"
```

2. Install Python dependencies
```
pip3 install defusedxml rospkg netifaces numpy
```

3. Create ROS workspace
```
mkdir -p /<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/jackal_ws/src
cd /<YOUR_HOME_DIR>/jackal_ws/src
```

4. Clone this repo and required ros packages: (replace `<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>` with your own, e.g. melodic)
```
git clone https://github.com/Daffan/the-barn-challenge.git
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal.git --branch <YOUR_ROS_VERSION>-devel
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal_simulator.git --branch <YOUR_ROS_VERSION>-devel
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal_desktop.git --branch <YOUR_ROS_VERSION>-devel
git clone https://github.com/utexas-bwi/eband_local_planner.git
```

5. Install ROS package dependencies: (replace `<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>` with your own, e.g. melodic)
```
cd ..
source /opt/ros/<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>/setup.bash
rosdep init; rosdep update
rosdep install -y --from-paths . --ignore-src --rosdistro=<YOUR_ROS_VERSION>
```

6. Build the workspace (if `catkin_make` fails, try changing `-std=c++11` to `-std=c++17` in `jackal_helper/CMakeLists.txt` line 3)
```
catkin_make
source devel/setup.bash
```

Follow the instruction below to run simulations in Singularity containers.

1. Follow this instruction to install Singularity: https://sylabs.io/guides/3.0/user-guide/installation.html. Singularity version >= 3.6.3 and <= 4.02 is required to successfully build the image!

2. Clone this repo
```
git clone https://github.com/Daffan/the-barn-challenge.git
cd the-barn-challenge
```

3. Build Singularity image (sudo access required)
```
sudo singularity build --notest nav_competition_image.sif Singularityfile.def
```

## Run Simulations
Navigate to the folder of this repo. Below is the example to run move_base with DWA as local planner.

If you run it on your local machines: (the example below runs [move_base](http://wiki.ros.org/move_base) with DWA local planner in world 0)
```
source ../../devel/setup.sh
python3 run.py --world_idx 0
```

If you run it in a Singularity container:
```
./singularity_run.sh /path/to/image/file python3 run.py --world_idx 0
```

A successful run should print the episode status (collided/succeeded/timeout) and the time cost in second:
> \>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Test finished! <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
>
> Navigation collided with time 27.2930 (s)

> \>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Test finished! <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
>
> Navigation succeeded with time 29.4610 (s)


> \>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> Test finished! <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
>
>Navigation timeout with time 100.0000 (s)

## Test your own navigation stack
We currently don't provide a lot of instructions or a standard API for implementing the navigation stack, but we might add more in this section depending on people's feedback. If you are new to the ROS or mobile robot navigation, we suggest checking [move_base](http://wiki.ros.org/move_base) which provides basic interface to manipulate a robot.

The suggested work flow is to edit section 1 in `run.py` file (line 89-109) that initialize your own navigation stack. You should not edit other parts in this file. We provide a bash script `test.sh` to run your navigation stack on 50 uniformly sampled BARN worlds with 10 runs for each world. Once the tests finish, run `python report_test.py --out_path /path/to/out/file` to report the test. Below is an example of DWA:
```
python report_test.py --out_path res/dwa_out.txt
```
You should see the report as this:
>Avg Time: 33.4715, Avg Metric: 0.1693, Avg Success: 0.8800, Avg Collision: 0.0480, Avg Timeout: 0.0720

Except for `DWA`, we also provide three learning-based navigation stack as examples (see branch `LfH`, `applr` and `e2e`).

## Submission
Submit a link that downloads your customized repository to this [Google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfZLMVluXE-HWnV9lNP00LuBi3e9HFOeLi30p9tsHUViWpqrA/viewform). Your navigation stack will be tested in the Singularity container on 50 hold-out BARN worlds sampled from the same distribution as the 300 BARN worlds. In the repository, make sure the `run.py` runs your navigation stack and `Singularityfile.def` installs all the dependencies of your repo. We suggest to actually build an image and test it with `./singularity_run.sh /path/to/image/file python3 run.py --world_idx 0`. You can also refer to branch `LfH`, `applr` and `e2e`, which are in the correct form for submissions.

--------------------------------------------------------

# Extra Features

## Rviz
Rviz config files for path planning visualization is under `jackal_helper/configs`.

To visualize a run
```
python run.py --rviz --rviz_config eband.rviz
```

> NOTE: default rviz_config file is `common.rviz` matching move_base DWA topic names, minimal edit is required if using other `move_base` plugins, more edit is required for using your own navigation stack developed outside of move_base

## More flexible test script and more detailed test report

`benchmark.sh` is a more customizable test script to the original `test.sh`

Arguments:
- `launch`: launch file for the navigation stack (can add more than 1)
- `start_idx`: starting world index
- `spacing`: index spacing
- `repeat`: repeat time for each world index

> NOTE: `start_idx` 0 and `spacing` 6 result in testing world index 0, 6, 12, ..., 354, the max world index is 359. The default launch file is `move_base_DWA.launch`, other arguments default value behave like `test.sh`

E.g.
```
./benchmark.sh --launch move_base_DWA.launch move_base_eband.launch --start_idx 0 --spacing 9 --repeat 5
```

### Test report
`report_test.py` now report separate metrics for static and dynamic worlds.

Report test for previous run logs, e.g. `move_base_DWA.launch.txt`
```
python report_test.py --out_path move_base_DWA.launch.txt
```

> I also added arguments for `run.py`, can check with `pyhton run.py -h`

## Playground

Run rviz, gazebo and navigation stack and keep them active to receive goal poses. 
You can easily set a goal pose in rviz using `2d goal pose` or do it via command line.
```
python playground.py --launch move_base_eband.launch --rviz_config eband.rviz
```

### set goal using command line
Publish goal to topic
```
rostopic pub -1 /move_base_simple/goal geometry_msgs/PoseStamped \
'header: {frame_id: "odom"} pose: {position: {x: 2.0, y: 3.0, z: 0.0}, orientation: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0, w: 1.0}}'

```
Using `move_base` action server gui to send goal interactively
```
rosrun actionlib axclient.py /move_base
```

## `move_base` teb & mpc local planner plugin
> NOTE: a fix is required to build mpc_local_planner, refers to https://github.com/rst-tu-dortmund/mpc_local_planner/pull/46

Installation
```
cd ~/jackal_ws/src
# teb
git clone https://github.com/rst-tu-dortmund/teb_local_planner.git
cd teb_local_planner
git checkout melodic-devel
# mpc
cd ..
git clone https://github.com/rst-tu-dortmund/mpc_local_planner.git
cd mpc_local_planner
git checkout melodic-devel
# install dependencies and build
cd ../..
rosdep install teb_local_planner
rosdep install mpc_local_planner
catkin_make
```
